Hooks. Let's talk about hooks. Hooks are the way that we can basically introduce like interactivity
or side effects or some other things to a just a fairly normal React component.
One thing we didn't chat too too much about is let's actually go school look at pizza.
One of the key things here is this function body here. It's a very hot code path. And when I say
that, I mean, it gets run a lot, right? So it renders and re-renders and re-renders. And if it
sees like nothing's changing, it doesn't change anything in the DOM. But as soon as it sees
something change, then it'll go update it. But the key here is this gets run more than you see,
right? And so it's important that you keep this to be a very performant. Like you don't want to
put like very heavy lifting inside of your render paths. You want to kind of pull it outside of the
render path so it doesn't slow down your DOM rendering. Because that's key because people
start to notice jank, right? Like things like shifting around if they're too slow. So this is
actually, it's an important thing to be very performant on. So you don't have to follow this.
I'm just going to kind of make an example really quick. But if I do something like const counter
equals counter equals counter plus plus. And let counter equals zero. So instead of name for just
to say, or just after this, we'll put counter. All right, so you notice this has zero on it,
right? Right now nothing's actually happening to our component. But if we start adding things
that like listen for events, right? So let's just say on click equals, we'll just do something that
does literally nothing. So just like an empty function. So this is actually still smart enough
to not render anything. That's that's pretty cool. Okay. Still probably not still smart enough to
not do anything. But well, this is actually a good example. You could even do something like
date dot now. So again, you would expect this to probably like keep re rendering itself, right?
But the point I'm actually trying to drive home here is like, you don't actually really know when
React is going to choose to re render your components. And when it's going to choose to
re render, you can see none of these are running ever. In fact, these are actually different,
which is funny to me, right? There was actually a millisecond or a millisecond difference between
the two of these. That's because React is like doing this, like these re render paths,
and it's only going to try and re render whenever it's necessary. And it tries to not re render
when it's not necessary. But you need to make sure that it's going to display the same markup
every single time given the same inputs. So something like this, we're date, not now or
counter where we were counting before, you would call these an effect, right, like a side effect to
your code. And you don't want to have any of those you want this to be make sure that no matter
when it's run, because you don't know when it's going to run, it's always going to give you an
expected results given the inputs that you give into it, right. So if you were trying to display
something where it was going to display a clock, right, you would need to make sure that all of
that was self contained and the effects were being handled properly. We'll get into that when we start
talking about use effect, right. But my point here is, is stuff like this, we're keeping track
of variables outside of react is a bad idea. And now I'm going to show you how you're supposed
to keep track of statefulness inside of your your react components. So let's take away all
this nonsense for now. All right, so let's go ahead and make a another component here,
we're going to call it order.jsx. We're going to make an order page.
Feel free to follow along with me if you want to. This is a somewhat of a long
component. So if you want to just copy and paste from the
the notes here, I'm not going to judge you too harshly, just a little.
All right, so another opinion here. I think it's a pretty good opinion.
Notice here in pizza, we have an arrow function. And we export default here and order I did it a
different way. Where I'm doing a named function here called orders. 99.99% the same thing. The
only thing where I actually kind of like this pattern better than the arrow function is the
kind of like this pattern better than the arrow function pattern is that when your app crashes,
so if I have an error in here, order being a named function is going to show up in the stack trace.
So you can actually see order in your stack traces. It helps with debugging, right? This pizza here,
it would tell you it came from the pizza component, but it would not tell you the
name of the function because technically this is not a named function. It's an anonymous function.
It would be the same thing if I did
const pizza2 equals function blah, right? This is exactly the same thing. Pizza2 would not show up
in the stack trace. Now you might ask yourself, how important is that to me? It's not super
important, right? But it's probably enough for you to know that it's from the order
file. You don't necessarily need to know that from the order function. So let's just start
writing a bunch of code. Const pizza type. We're going to use this to keep track of what pizza
type they've selected, right? So this is the order page where they're going to select what kind of
pizza they want, what size they want, and they'll click order or rather add to cart. It's going to
be a pepperoni pizza. And we're going to start with a pizza size of medium. These are like the
defaults. Pizza size equals capital M for medium. And then we'll return a whole lot of markup.
So we'll call this order. My CSS is structured in such a way that we don't have to write class name
on every single thing. That's purely for the sake of this class so that you don't have to
write class name a bunch. In general, please give everything a class. Don't do all the weird
selector stuff that I did to make it easier for you. In other words, the CSS is intentionally bad
to make it easier for you to write code. That's generally not this trade-off that you would want
to make. All right. H2, this is going to be create order page. It's going to have a form
and then it's going to have a div and another div. And then we're going to do a label. The label is
going to be for pizza dash type, pizza type. Then we're going to have a select. Name equals
pizza dash type. Oh, we're going to give it a value too. That'll be fun. Value equals pizza type.
So value, just basically say you're going to set whatever the value of pizza type is
to the value here. Okay. We're going to give it a couple of options.
Option, value equals pepperoni. The pepperoni pizza. Okay. We're going to make a few of those.
Hawaiian.
Hawaiian. And this one was big underscore meat. The big meat pizza.
Okay. So far, if it feels like we're just writing a normal HTML form, it's because we're writing
in a normal HTML form. There's not a lot too interesting to talk about here.
Okay. That's the first div that we're escaping there. Correct. Yep.
Make another div in here. And we're making another label. This is for pizza size
and pizza size. And this is pizza size. All right. Another div here. And we're going to
have some radio buttons. It's out of spans. Input, checked equals
pizza size, triple equals capital S. Again, this is my ligatures putting three equal signs together.
That's why it looks like that fat equal sign. Type equals radio. Name equals
pizza dash size. Value equals S. And ID equals pizza dash S.
Okay. And then we'll close. Oops. Close that off. Get that all spaced out.
And then we will do a label again for pizza dash S. And this is a small size. So we're doing radio
buttons for all the various different sizes of pizza. Right? And then we're going to have
a label. So I'm just going to go ahead and copy and paste this span. And so I have the top one,
which is going to be small. This one is going to be medium. So we'll just change all the places
where it says S to M. Right? So they're pretty similar. This one's just medium. This one's just
small. Same thing here. This will be the large size. And large. Okay. Once we have that and span
and div and next div. Button. Type is going to be submit. Add to cart.
Okay. And then inside of that, we're going to put another div. Brian, you have too many divs. I'm
not going to disagree with you. Order dash pizza. We're going to put a pizza in here.
Right now we're just going to give it a normal pepperoni pizza, but eventually we'll make it
dynamic to be the one that you have selected. Right? But for now we're just going to say
pepperoni description equals another pizza. Whatever you want to put there, image is going
to be assigned public pizzas, pepperoni.webp. And then close that tag. Okay. And then just
underneath that, we just want to put the price. We'll put that in a P and we'll just say whatever
you want to put there. $13.37. Okay. So basically we're just working on forms here. Right? The
classic thing for most webs. Most stuff can be boiled down to you're just submitting a form
somewhere. Right? Using some divs here. I know all the divs seem excessive, but it's for the
styling, right? Just to kind of get everything grouped together visually. We got some radio
buttons here so they can be small, medium or large. That sounds good. And we have a submit
button that adds to cart, which will submit the form. We will get to how to handle that form
submittal, but let's save here. So yeah, we've now created an order component. We have to go use it
before anything's going to show up. Right? So let's go to our app.jsx.
We're going to delete the pizza import because we're not going to use that now. We're going to
say import order from dot slash order. Cool. And for now, we're just going to make this the default
home page. So you're just going to say order. Okay. That got very wide. Cool. But you should
see something akin to this. You'll probably have some errors in here. That's fine. Ignore those for
now.